# Abolish “Acts”: How to make the law more organized

Laws, as they exist today, are like normal documents, with pages, organized lists of information, text, headers, tables of contents, etc. This way of organization is outdated, not having seen any significant change since its introduction centuries or millennia ago. This causes laws to be confusing and in our modern era with thousands of pages of laws for each country, province, city, district, etc., etc., nearly impossible to find specific rules as needed without an incredibly specialized expert or lawyer.

A new structure of laws is needed. Laws are really nothing more than unique, small rules put into a unified document of similar rules with different sections for different categories. An abolition of a centralized document for an individual law, instead favoring a focus on the individual rules could benefit access to laws.

In layman’s terms, imagine a world where the “law” is just an abstract concept describing a list of rules without specific acts existing. Instead, the components of acts are freed and put into the general categorization of the “law” as a whole. And when a person, for instance, an accountant, is looking for the tax laws, they can go to a central database for the “law” and sort the entire list of individual rules for ones relating to taxes.

In this sense, different tags could be made that are comparable to acts in the traditional sense. For instance, instead of having a “Taxation Act,” this system would have a general “Taxation” tag that all individual rules relating to taxes would have. But rules relating to taxes could also relate to welfare, for instance. In this case, they could be categorized under “Taxation” and “Welfare” simultaneously. It would be rather redundant to include one rule twice in a “Taxation Act” and a “Welfare Act” in the traditional system even though it may be necessary for people searching for tax and welfare laws to see that rule. In this system, however, there is no unified act system and finding laws is much simpler.

Instead of passing laws as unified chunks that are impossible to be able to read fully for the average person, this new system would require individual rules to be passed instead of chunks of rules, meaning the law would be more succinct. It is also more compatible with a direct democratic system because it is already similar to how the referendum system works in most countries.

**Tl;dr/To conclude**: Most aspects of government have been revolutionized in the past couple of centuries. We no longer live in the feudal monarchies of the middle ages, and neither should our conception of the law. It is time to free our governments and ourselves from the concept of an “Act” or “Bill” – which are just collections of individual rules – and to move towards a framework that allows individual rules to be passed and included in different categories or tags such as “Taxation” or “Welfare” should a rule relate to both simultaneously.
